OBSDOCS-345-best-practices-alert-relabeling-for-core-monitoring (#62211)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-optimizing-alerting-rules-for-core-platform-monitoring.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/managing-alerts.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="Optimizing-alerting-rules-for-core-platform-monitoring{context}"]
= Optimizing alerting rules for core platform monitoring

You can optimize alerting for core platform monitoring by considering the following recommendations when creating or modifying alerting rules:

* *Minimize the number of new alerting rules that you create*.
Create only those new alerting rules that are essential to your specific requirements.

> It can be difficult for users to notice important alerts if the system is generating numerous, less critical alerts for conditions that might not be relevant to a given situation.

Reviewer: `It can be difficult for users to notice important alerts if the system is generating numerous`
->
`It can be difficult for users to notice important alerts if the system is generating numerous alerts`

`less critical alerts for conditions that might not be relevant to a given situation`
it seems strange, but I don't get the point

Author: It's a bit confusing, you're right. Removing.

* *Create alerting rules for symptoms instead of causes*.
Create alerting rules that notify users of conditions regardless of the underlying cause.

> After the alert has fired, someone can then investigate the cause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the alert has been fired, someone can then investigate the cause.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/managing-alerts.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT

> [id="Optimizing-alerting-rules-for-core-platform-monitoring{context}"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[id="Optimizing-alerting-rules-for-core-platform-monitoring_{context}"]
```

Author: Good catch! I'll fix this.

Author: Fixed

> = Optimizing alerting rules for core platform monitoring

Reviewer 2: Do we need to start a concept heading with a noun or noun phrase rather than a gerund?
I'm looking at https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#creating-concept-modules and https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#writing-concepts. How about this?
```suggestion
= Optimization of alerting rules for core platform monitoring
```

Author: Another good catch. You are correct. I was trying to stay consistent with the parallel topic for user workload monitoring: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/monitoring/managing-alerts.html#Optimizing-alerting-for-user-defined-projects_managing-alerts. But I think the new one needs to follow the guidelines even though the old one does not. I think I'll change this one to "Tips for optimizing alerting rules for core platform monitoring". Because I think this is less awkward than "Optimization of..."

Author: Changed.

> Consider these key recommendations before creating or modifying alerting rules for core platform monitoring.
> By following these guidelines, you can optimize your alerting system, which helps you to build an efficient and effective monitoring environment tailored to your organization's specific needs

Reviewer 2: I see there's a mention of "recommendations" (https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#recommend) and missing closing punctuation.
So my initial reaction was to suggest a rewrite of these two lines, also in order to highlight the use case:
```suggestion
To build an efficient and effective monitoring environment for core platform monitoring that is tailored to your organization's specific needs, there are guidelines you can follow to optimize the alerting rules:
```
However, When I looked at the bullet points that follow, I thought I'd scrap this suggestion.

Author: Thanks for that suggestion. It got me thinking that the whole introductory paragraph needs to be shortened and rewritten to put the emphasis on the use case --  namely, the case of someone customizing alerting rules (not everyone will do so). So I've rewritten it as:

`If you customize core platform alerting rules to meet your organization's specific needs, follow these guidelines to help ensure that the customized rules are efficient and effective.`

> 

Reviewer 2: I'm not confident to suggest the most optimal markup option for the following bullet points, but I hope you've considered the AsciiDoc options available, like (second-level headings like `== Minimize the number of new rules.` or description lists like `Minimize the number of new rules.::`?. Also, I noticed that the period at the end of each bold sentence is currently not included within the markup.

* *Minimize the number of new rules*.
Create only rules that are essential to your specific requirements.
By minimizing the number of rules, you create a more manageable and focused alerting system in your monitoring environment.

* *Focus on symptoms rather than causes*.
Create rules that notify users of symptoms instead of underlying causes.
This approach ensures that users are promptly notified of a relevant symptom so that they can investigate the root cause after an alert has triggered.

> This tactic also significantly reduces the overall number of rules you need to create.

Reviewer 2: I have a drastic suggestion you might want to explore if you haven't done so already:
These two bullet points seem to be relevant only to [this section](https://62211--docspreview.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/monitoring/managing-alerts.html#creating-new-alerting-rules_managing-alerts).I would have moved these two points there as either two bullet points in a TIP before `.Prerequisites` or two additional intro paragraphs.

Author: That's a thought-provoking sugested change that would really change the whole approach. Thanks! , but a) I want to stay consistent with the structure of the parallel topic for user-defined projects at https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/monitoring/managing-alerts.html#Optimizing-alerting-for-user-defined-projects_managing-alerts, and b) I think it's a better for users to see all of the tips aggregated in a single place at the beginning of whole section versus spreading them over different topics -- sort of a "before you begin" approach to the whole process. 

So I'm going to leave this as-is.

* *Plan and assess your needs before implementing changes*.
First, decide what symptoms are important and what actions you want users to take if these symptoms occur.
Then, assess existing rules and decide if you can modify any of them to meet your needs instead of creating entirely new rules for each symptom.

> By modifying existing rules and creating new ones judiciously, you help to streamline your alerting system.

Author: Same comment as the previous. I'm leaving this as-is.

> * *Provide clear alert messaging*.

Author: Same comment as the previous. I'm leaving this as-is.

> When you create alert messages, describe the symptom, the possible causes, and the recommended actions.

Reviewer 2: Would this improve readability of this sentence?
```suggestion
When you create alert messages, describe the symptom, possible causes, and recommended actions.
```

Author: Yes. Changing it per your suggestion.

Include unambiguous, concise explanations along with troubleshooting steps or links to more information.

> Doing so helps users to quickly assess the situation and respond appropriately.

Reviewer 2: :smile_cat: Do you tend to write `help users to quickly` or just `help users quickly`? Just curious, having seen [another line](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/62211/files#diff-23bb5193ac2ddb50b6d518de3ad714c1628a27aa426bc632010db848f1fc4b3eR34).

Author: Good point. Changing per your suggestion.
